>> Woodruff: THE SEARCH EXPANDED
FOR THAT MISSING MALAYSIAN
JETLINER TODAY AS NEW LEADS
EMERGED ABOUT THE MYSTERY BEHIND
IT'S DISAPPEARANCE.
THE NEW YORK TIMES REPORTED
RADAR READINGS SHOW THE PLANE
CLIMBED SHARPLY, THEN DROPPED,
WHILE TURNING SEVERAL TIMES.
OTHER THEORIES RANGED FROM
PIRACY TO A CARGO FIRE.
BUT THERE APPEARED TO BE GROWING
AGREEMENT THAT THE PLANE TURNED
WEST AND FLEW FOR SOME TIME,
TOWARD THE INDIAN OCEAN.
WE'LL TALK TO TWO FOLLOWING IT
ALL, RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
UKRAINE IS FACING A FATEFUL
WEEKEND, WITH A SUNDAY
REFERENDUM IN CRIMEA TO SECEDE
AND JOIN RUSSIA.
AS THAT VOTE NEARED TODAY,
RUSSIA DEPLOYED MORE TROOPS AND
ARMOR IN CRIMEA.
MOSCOW ALSO REPEATED A THREAT TO
INTERVENE ELSEWHERE.
THE WARNING FOLLOWED OVERNIGHT
STREET BATTLES IN DONETSK, A
MAINLY RUSSIA-SPEAKING CITY IN
EASTERN UKRAINE, WHERE AT LEAST
ONE PROTESTER WAS KILLED.
MEANWHILE, A DELEGATION OF U.S.
SENATORS, LED BY REPUBLICAN JOHN
MCCAIN, VISITED THE CAPITAL,
KIEV.
THEY LAID FLOWERS AT A MEMORIAL
HONORING SLAIN PROTESTERS.
>> Woodruff: IN LONDON,
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
AND RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER
SERGEI LAVROV HELD SIX HOURS OF
TALKS, BUT FAILED TO MAKE
HEADWAY TOWARD RESOLVING THE
CRISIS.
THEY SPOKE TO REPORTERS
AFTERWARD.
>> ( translated ): WE DO NOT
HAVE COMMON VISION OF THE
SITUATION.
THE DIFFERENCES ARE THERE BUT
THE DIALOGUE WAS DEFINITELY
CONSTRUCTIVE AND IT COULD HELP
US TO UNDERSTAND HOW MUCH AND
HOW GOOD WE UNDERSTAND EACH
OTHER.
>> THE FOREIGN MINISTER MADE IT
CLEAR THAT PRESIDENT PUTIN IS
NOT PREPARED TO MAKE ANY
DECISION REGARDING UKRAINE UNTIL
AFTER THE REFERENDUM ON SUNDAY.
THE UNITED STATES' POSITION ON
THAT REFERENDUM I MUST SAY IS
CLEAR AND IT'S CLEAR TODAY.
WE BELIEVE THE REFERENDUM IS
CONTRARY TO THE CONSTITUTION OF
UKRAINE.
IT'S CONTRARY TO INTERNATIONAL
LAW.
>> Woodruff: IF CRIMEA SECEDES,
THE U.S. AND THE EUROPEAN UNION
PLAN TO IMPOSE SANCTIONS ON
SELECT RUSSIAN OFFICIALS AND
BUSINESSES, AS EARLY AS MONDAY.
THAT THREAT HIT RUSSIA'S MAIN
STOCK INDEX  AIN TGAODAY.
IT'S DOWN 16% IN THE LAST TWO
WEEKS.
WE'LL RETURN TO THE SCENE INSIDE
CRIMEA, WHERE MARGARET WARNER IS
ON THE GROUND, LATER IN THE
PROGRAM.
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT WILL GIVE UP
DIRECT CONTROL OVER
ADMINISTRATION OF THE INTERNET.
THE COMMERCE DEPARTMENT
ANNOUNCED THE DECISION TODAY.
THE PRACTICAL EFFECTS WERE NOT
IMMEDIATELY CLEAR, BUT NEWS
ACCOUNTS SAID A NEW OVERSIGHT
BODY MUST BE CREATED.
THAT GROUP WOULD WORK WITH
ICANN, A CALIFORNIA NON-PROFIT
THAT OVERSEES ASSIGNING INTERNET
DOMAIN NAMES AND WEB ADDRESSES.
A WATCHDOG GROUP NOW CLAIMS
THE PROBLEM BEHIND A MAJOR
GENERAL MOTORS RECALL MAY BE
LINKED TO 300 DEATHS.
THE CENTER FOR AUTO SAFETY SAYS
IT STUDIED ACCIDENTS WHERE A
FAULTY IGNITION SWITCH MAY HAVE
DISABLED AIRBAGS.
G.M. SAYS THE DEFECT RESULTED IN
12 DEATHS.
IT HAS RECALLED
1.6 MILLION VEHICLES BUT IS
BEING CRITICIZED FOR NOT ACTING
SOONER.
PRESIDENT OBAMA WILL LOOK FOR
WAYS TO EASE THE EFFECTS OF
DEPORTING THOSE IN THE UNITED
STATES ILLEGALLY.
THE MOVE WAS ANNOUNCED LAST
NIGHT.
TWO MILLION PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
DEPORTED UNDER MR. OBAMA, AND
HISPANIC LEADERS ARE PRESSING
FOR RELIEF.
BUT WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY
JAY CARNEY CAUTIONED TODAY,
THERE ARE LIMITS TO WHAT'S
POSSIBLE.
>> THE PRESIDENT UNDERSTANDS AND
IS CONCERNED ABOUT THE PAIN
CAUSED BY SEPARATIONS THAT HAVE
COME ABOUT THROUGH DEPORTATION,
BUT HE ALSO UNDERSTANDS AND HAS
MADE CLEAR THAT THERE'S NO
COMPREHENSIVE FIX HE CAN HIMSELF
ENACT.
CONGRESS HAS TO ACT.
>> Woodruff: SO FAR, THOUGH,
THERE'S LITTLE PROSPECT OF
COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM
THIS YEAR.
THE PRESIDENT SAYS ENOUGH PEOPLE
HAVE SIGNED UP, UNDER HIS HEALTH
CARE LAW, FOR THE PROGRAM TO
WORK.
HE TOLD THE MEDICAL WEBSITE "WEB
M.D." TODAY THAT  ENROLLMENT TO
DATE, 4.2 MILLION, IS SUFFICIENT
TO MAKE THE PROGRAM STABLE.
BUT HE ALSO URGED YOUNG AND
HEALTHY PEOPLE TO SIGN UP, TO
OFF-SET COSTS.
THE DEADLINE IS MARCH 31ST.
THE U.S. EDUCATION DEPARTMENT
WILL TRY AGAIN TO CRACK DOWN ON
CAREER-TRAINING COLLEGES WHOSE
GRADUATES CAN'T PAY THEIR
STUDENT DEBT.
THESE PROGRAMS ACCOUNT FOR
ALMOST HALF OF ALL STUDENT LOAN
DEFAULTS.
EDUCATION SECRETARY ARNE DUNCAN
CALLED TODAY FOR STRIPPING
SCHOOLS OF ACCESS TO FINANCIAL
AID IF THEIR PUPILS CAN'T FIND
DECENT-PAYING JOBS.
A FEDERAL JUDGE REJECTED EARERLI
RULES AS ARBITRARY.
WALL STREET LOST MORE GROUND
TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
DROPPED 43 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,065.
THE NASDAQ FELL 15 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,245.
AND THE STANDARD AND POOR'S 500
WAS DOWN FIVE, AT 1,841.
FOR THE WEEK, ALL THREE INDEXES
LOST 2% OR MORE.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
EXPANDING THE SEARCH FOR THE
MISSING MALAYSIAN AIRLINER; A
V COTE INMEA RITHAT MKRAINE; MS
AND DAVID BROOKS ON THE WEEK'S
NEWS; PLUS, THE STORY OF EDWARD
SNOWDEN, AND THE LEAKS THAT LED
TO A SPYING UPROAR.
>> Woodruff: MALAYSIAN AIRLINES
FLIGHT M-H-370 REMAINED
OFFICIALLY MISSING TODAY, WITH
ALL 239 PASSENGERS AND CREW.
A VARIETY OF EXPLANATIONS.
HARI SREENIVASAN BEGINS WITH
THIS REPORT.
>> Sreenivasan: AFTER NEARLY A
WEEK, THE SEARCH, AND
SPECULATION, CONTINUE TO GROW.
SHIPS AND PLANES FROM A GROWING
NUMBER OF NATIONS HAVE EXPANDED
THE HUNT TO THE WEST AND THE
EAST.
VARIOUS NEWS ACCOUNTS TODAY
QUOTED UNNAMED OFFICIALS, BOTH
MALAYSIAN AND U.S., THAT IT'S
INCREASINGLY LIKELY THE BOEING
TRIPLE-SEVEN CHANGED COURSE,
POSSIBLY IN AN ACT OF PIRACY.
WHAT'S NOW KNOWN IS THE PLANE
LEFT KUALA LUMPUR BOUND FOR
BEIJING, REACHED AN ALTITUDE OF
35,000 FEET AND THEN STOPPED
COMMUNICATING WITH AIR TRAFFIC
CONTROLLERS AROUND 1:30 IN THE
MORNING LAST SATURDAY, SOMEWHERE
OVER THE SOUTH CHINA SEA.
ONE POSSIBILITY, IT MADE A HARD
LEFT TURN.
THE SEARCH AREAS NOW ENCOMPASS
THOUSANDS OF MILES, STRETCHING
FURTHER INTO THE SOUTH CHINA SEA
AND ALSO PUSHING WESTWARD INTO
THE ANDAMAN SEA AND THE INDIAN
OCEAN.
THAT'S IN KEEPING WITH REPORTS
THE PLANE TRAVELED SEVERAL HOURS
AFTER DISAPPEARING, ALTHOUGH
MALAYSIA WON'T CONFIRM OR DENY
IT.
>> THERE HAS BEEN A LOT OF MEDIA
SPECULATION TODAY AFTER COMMENTS
FROM UNNAMED U.S. OFFICIALS
SUGGESTED THE PLANE MAY HAVE
TRAVELED FOR SOME TIME AFTER
LOSING CONTACT.
AS IS STANDARD PROCEDURE, THE
INVESTIGATION TEAM WILL NOT
PUBLICLY RELEASE INFORMATION
UNTIL IT HAS PROPERLY BEEN
VERIFIED AND CORROBORATED WITH
THE RELEVANT AUTHORITIES.
>> Sreenivasan: IN THE LAST 24
HOURS, THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
AND OTHER MAJOR NEWS
ORGANIZATIONS REPORTED THE
MISSING JET DID CONVEY SOME
BAC INSIFORMATION VIA A SERIES
OF INTERMITTENT SATELLITE PINGS
FOR HOURS AFTER IT'S TRANSPONDER
STOPPED WORKING.
AND THE SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
COMPANY, INMARSAT, CONFIRMED
TODAY IT RECORDED THOSE PINGS.
MALAYSIAN AUTHORITIES ARE
DISTILLING THAT DATA WITH
AMERICAN HELP.
>> WE ARE NOW WORKING VERY
CLOSELY WITH OUR TEAM FROM U.S.
TO GET WHATEVER INFORMATION OF
SATELLITE WITH THE U.S. AND WE
ARE WORKING THAT TO DETERMINE
THE WHEREABOUTS OF THE AIRCRAFT.
WE CANNOT REVEAL THE INFORMATION
RIGHT NOW BECAUSE IT'S STILL
UNDER INVESTIGATION.
>> Sreenivasan: SEPARATELY,
C.N.N. REPORTED INVESTIGATORS
ARE EXAMINING WHETHER LITHIUM
BATTERIES IN THE PLANE'S CARGO
PLAYED ANY ROLE.
IN WASHINGTON, WHITE HOUSE PRESS
SECRETARY JAY CARNEY COUNSELED
CAUTION AND URGED PATIENCE.
>> THIS IS A DIFFICULT AND
UNUSUAL SITUATION AND WE'RE
WORKING HARD IN CLOSE
COLLABORATION WITH THE MALAYSIAN
GOVERNMENT TO INVESTIGATE A
NUMBER OF SCENARIOS FOR WHAT
HAPPENED TO THE FLIGHT.
OUR HEARTS OF COURSE GO OUT TO
THE FAMILIES OF THE PASSENGERS
WHO ARE IN THIS AGONIZING
SITUATION.
>> Sreenivasan: MEANWHILE, MANY
CHINESE FAMILIES WAITED
ANXIOUSLY FOR A SIXTH DAY FOR
ANY NUGGET OF NEWS ABOUT THEIR
LOVED ONES.
>> ( translated ): WE ARE RACING
AGAINST TIME.
>> Sreenivasan: AND AT A MOSQUE
NEAR KUALA LUMPUR'S AIRPORT,
WORSHIPPERS PRAYED FOR THE
MISSING AND FOR RESOLUTION TO
THE WEEK-LONG MYSTERY.
>> Woodruff: TO HELP US
UNDERSTAND WHAT'S KNOWN AND
WHAT'S STILL A MYSTERY, I AM
JOINED BY JIM HALL, WHO SERVED
AS CHAIRMAN OF THE NATIONAL
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD FROM
1994 TO 2001 AND OVERSAW A
NUMBER OF AIRLINE DISASTER
INVESTIGATIONS.
AND ANDY PASZTOR, A LONG-TIME
AVIATION REPORTER WHO HAS BEEN
COVERING THIS STORY FOR THE WALL
STREET JOURNAL.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
ANDY PASZTOR, BRING US UP TO
DATE ON WHAT IS KNOWN AT THIS
HOUR OF THE EVENING, THIS
FRIDAY.
>> SO THIS CASE SEEMS
INCREASINGLY HEADED TOWARD A
CRIMINAL OR TERRORIST TRACK.
EVEN THE MOST EXTREME CONSPIRACY
NEARESTS ARE HAVING TROUBLE
COMING UP WITH AN EXPLANATION
THAT DOESN'T INVOLVE DELIBERATE
ACTS ON THIS AIRCRAFT.
OVER A SPAN OF SIX HOURS, THREE
DIFFERENT SIGNALING SYSTEMS WERE
TURNED OFF, SOME REQUIRING
SPECIFIC ACTS BY WHOEVER OR
WHATEVER GROUP DID THAT HAD TO
BE INTENTIONAL, AND THE PLANE
CHANGED COURSE AND ALTITUDE A
NUMBER OF TIMES, AND I THINK
IT'S ONLY, I WOULD SAY, THE MOST
EXTREME THEORISTS WHO WOULD
STILL SAY THAT THIS IS NOT SOME
KIND OF A CRIMINAL ACT.
THE BIG PROBLEM, OF COURSE, IS
WE DON'T KNOW WHERE THE PLANE
IS, WE DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
INTENTIONS OF THE PERSON OR THE
GROUP WHO DID THIS ARE AND THE
BIGGEST CA CONUNDRUM IS THERE'SO
DEBRIS.
IF THERE'S ANY FACT THAT'S CLEAR
IN AN AVIATION CASE LIKE THIS,
IF A PLANE THIS SIZE GOES INTO
THE WATER, THERE HAS TO BE
DEBRIS.
SOMETHING WILL FLOAT FROM INSIDE
AND WE'RE JUST NOT LOOKING IN
THE RIGHT PLACE IF IT CRASHED
INTO THE WATER.
>> Woodruff: JIM HALL, WHEN
YOU PUT TOGETHER WHAT IS COMING
OUT, THE SIGNAL SYSTEMS BEING
TURNED OFF, THE APPARENT --
WE'RE LEARNING TONIGHT -- ABRUPT
CHANGES IN ALTITUDE, THE CHANGES
IN DIRECTION, YOU PUT ALL THIS
TOGETHER, WHAT DOES IT TELL YOU?
>> WELL, OUR INVESTIGATORS ARE
GOING TO HAVE TO STILL PURSUE
THE DUAL COURSE THAT WE DID IN
TWA800 TO LOOK TO SEE WHETHER
THIS IS A CRIMINAL ACT OR
AVIATION ACCIDENT.
HOWEVER, I WOULD AGREE WITH
ANDY, THE WINDOW SEEMS TO BE
CLOSING ON THE POSSIBILITY OF
THE ACTIONS ON THIS AIRCRAFT
HAPPENING AS A RESULT OF AN
ACCIDENT.
THERE ARE CERTAIN -- I THINK IN
THIS SITUATION ALMOST EVERYONE'S
AN EXPERT AND NO ONE'S AN EXPERT
BECAUSE, THE WAY THE INFORMATION
HAS BEEN HANDLED BY THE
INVESTIGATIVE AUTHORITIES IN
MALAYSIA BORDERS ON
IRRESPONSIBLE AND, HOPEFULLY, WE
WILL SEE IN COMING DAYS BETTER
COOPERATION AND MORE INFORMATION
COMING IN A TIMELY FASHION SO
THAT THE VAST RESOURCES THAT ARE
BEING USED AROUND THE WORLD TO
LOOK FOR THIS AIRCRAFT CAN BE
BETTER DIRECTED.
>> Reporter: ANDY PASZTOR,
MUCH OF THIS NEW INFORMATION,
SOME OF IT IS COMING FROM THE
MALAYSIAN MILITARY, BUT IT'S
ALSO COMING, AS WE MENTIONED IN
THAT REPORT, FROM SATELLITE
COMPANIES THAT OWN SATELLITES
AND ARE TELLING REPORTERS WHAT
THEY SEE.
HOW MUCH OF WHAT IS COMING OUT
IS NOW, IN YOUR MIND, CONFIRMED?
>> SO IT'S VERY IMPORTANT TO BE
PRECISE IN ANY KIND OF
INVESTIGATION LIKE THIS.
WHAT WE KNOW FOR CERTAIN IS THAT
THIS AIRCRAFT CONTINUED TO SEND
SIGNALS OUT TO SATELLITES FOR UP
TO FIVE HOURS AFTER IT TURNED
OFF -- AFTER THE TRANSPONDER
STOPPED COMMUNICATING WITH AIR R
TRAFFIC CONTROL, AND THAT IS
ABSOLUTE FACT.
SECONDLY, WE KNOW THAT THE PLANE
STAYED IN TACT BECAUSE THE
SIGNALS CONTINUED.
SO DURING THAT PERIOD, IT HAD
NOT CRASHED AND THE ENGINES WERE
WORKING AND IT WAS FLYING.
I MEAN, THAT IS FACT.
THE DIFFICULTY, I THINK, IS
GOING TO BECOME CLEAR.
IF THIS TURNS INTO SOME KIND OF
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION AND THE
MALAYSIANS ARE IN CHARGE,
UNFORTUNATELY, AS JIM JUST
INDICATED, THEY HAVE BEEN LESS
THAN STELLAR, WITH WHICH IS A
NICE WAY TO PUT IT, IN TERMS OF
HOW THEY'VE CONDUCTED THEIR
INVESTIGATION SO FAR, AND I
THINK THAT COULD BE A PROBLEM
FOR THE U.S.NS THE SBI GETS INV,
WE'RE LOOKING AHEAD, BUT IT'S
COMING.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO KEEP
CLOSE TRACK OF WHAT THE
MALAYSIAMALAYSIANS ARE DOING, EN
TODAY.
AFTER ALL THE INFORMATION ABOUT
THE AIRCRAFT FLYING FOR HOURS,
AS YOU HEARD, THE OFFICIALS IN
THAT COUNTRY ARE STILL
SUGGESTING THAT MAY NOT BE TRUE.
THAT'S NOT A VERY HELPFUL SIGN
FOR A THOROUGH AND REALLY
CAREFUL INVESTIGATION.
>> Woodruff: JIM HALL, IF YOU
WERE INVOLVED IN THIS
INVESTIGATION, WHAT KINDS OF
QUESTIONS WOULD YOU BE SEEKING
ANSWERS TO RIGHT NOW?
>> WELL, I WOULD BE LOOKING TO
THE PROFESSIONAL PEOPLE AT THE
NTSB THAT ARE EXPERTS IN THIS
AIRCRAFT AND IN RADAR, IN
COOPERATION WITH BOEING, IN
COOPERATION WITH THE MILITARY
AND ALL OF THE AGENCIES THAT CAN
SUPPORT AN INVESTIGATION.
BUT, AGAIN, WE DON'T HAVE AN
INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATION IN
MALAYSIA SIMILAR TO WHAT WE'VE
SEEN WITH THE NTSB OR OTHER
INDEPENDENT ACCIDENT
INVESTIGATION AUTHORITIES AROUND
THE WORLD.
AND JUDY, THE THING THAT REALLY
TEARS AT YOU ARE THE FAMILIES.
THEY'RE THE LAST ONES, IT
APPEARS, TO BE GETTING ANY
ACCURATE INFORMATION, AND THEY
SHOULD BE THE FIRST ONES.
SO THIS WHOLE THING FROM THE
BEGINNING TO END HAS BEEN AN
EXERCISE OF, YOU KNOW, A LESSON
IN WHAT NOT TO DO IN A MAJOR
AVIATION ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION.
>> Woodruff: JIM HALL, STAYING
WITH YOU, IN TERMS OF HOW MANY
DAYS HAVE NOW PASSED, IT WILL BE
A WEEK TOMORROW NIGHT SINCE THAT
HAPPENED.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN IN TERMS OF
IF THERE WAS A CRASH INTO THE
WATER WHEREVER IT WAS, IS THERE
LIKELY TO BE EVIDENCE STILL OUT
THERE OR WHAT?
>> WELL, AS ANDY SAID, THERE
SHOULD BE EVIDENCE IF IT'S IN
THE WATER OF ITEMS FROM THE
AIRCRAFT FLOATING.
MY CONCERN IS, IF THE
TRANSPONDER WAS TURNED OFF OR,
INFORMATION, THIS WAS SOME FORM
OF NEW CYBERWARFARE WE HAVEN'T
SEEN, IT'S ALSO POSSIBLE TO PULL
THE CIRCUIT BREAKERS ON THE
FLIGHT AND COCKPIT VOICE
RECORDERS, SO EVEN FINDING
WRECKAGE TO THE AIRCRAFT MAY
STILL LEAVE UNANSWERED WHAT
HAPPENED IN THE VITAL MOMENTS IN
THE COCKPIT.
AS YOU KNOW, WE DIDN'T HAVE THAT
INFORMATION IN 9/11.
THAT'S WHY I HAVE BEEN SUCH AN
ADVOCATE FOR DEPLOYABLE
RECORDERS AND I THINK WE NEED TO
QUESTION EXACTLY WHETHER THE
FLIGHT CREW -- YOU KNOW, WHETHER
A TRANSPONDER SHOULD BE ABLE TO
BE TURNED OFF ON A COMMERCIAL
AIRCRAFT IN THIS DAY AND AGE.
>> Reporter: QUICKLY, FINALLY,
ANDY PASZTOR, THE SCOPE OF THE
SEARCH AT THIS POINT IS WHAT?
>> AT THIS POINT, YOU WOULD SAY
IT INCLUDES TENS OF THOUSANDS OE
IMPORTANTLY, VARIOUS PARTS OF
THE REGION, SO THEY'RE NOT EVEN
CONCENTRATING IN ONE PART.
JUST TODAY, THE U.S. NAVY'S
STARTING TO REALLY PRESS IN THE
INDIAN OCEAN, WHICH IS THE AREA
WHERE THE INVESTIGATORS BELIEVE
THE LAST CONTACT WITH THE
SATELLITE OCCURRED.
BUT THE AIRCRAFT STILL HAD,
PERHAPS, AN HOUR'S WORTH OF
FUEL, MAYBE MORE.
SO JUST WAS THE
LAST CONTACT, IT'S CERTAINLY THE
SUSPICIONS ARE THAT WHOEVER DID
THIS MANAGED TO TURN OFF THAT
LAST SIGNALING SYSTEM AT THAT
POINT AND THE PLANE COULD HAVE
FLOWN MANY, MANY HUNDREDS OF
MILES AFTER THAT IN A DIRECTION
THAT, OF COURSE, WE HAD NO IDEA.
>> Woodruff: ANDY PASZTOR, JIM
HALL, WE THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW THAT AN 11TH
HOUR DIPLOMATIC EFFORT BETWEEN
THE U.S. AND RUSSIA  FAILED TO
PRODUCE A BREAKTHROUGH, THE FATE
OF THE UKRAINIAN REGION OF
CRIMEA HANGS IN THE BALANCE OF
SUNDAY'S REFERENDUM VOTE.
OUR CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT, MARGARET WARNER,
IS IN CRIMEA AND LOOKS AT A
COMMUNITY SPLIT OVER ITS FUTURE.
>> Reporter: HE'S GOING DOOR
TO DOOR URGING HIS FELLOW
UKRAINIANS TO GO OUT SUNDAY AND
ONCE AGAIN BECOME PART OF
RUSSIA.
HE SHOWS THEM A SAMPLE BALLOT ON
HOW THEY SHOULD VOTE.
THEIR CHOICE APPEARS TO BE
ESSENTIALLY BETWEEN VOTING TO
JOIN RUSSIA IMMEDIATELY OR TO
DECLARE INDEPENDENCE FROM
UKRAINE AS A PRAY PRELUDE TO TH.
HE VOLUNTEERED FOR THE NEW
SO-CALLED DEFENSE FORCES AFTER
PROTESTS IN KIEV OUSTED
YANUKOVICH AND INSTALLED A
WESTERN-BACKED GOVERNMENT.
HOE LIKENS THE CURRENT POLITITIL
STRUGGLE TO THE BLOODY BATTLE
OVER UKRAINE 70 YEARS AGO
BETWEEN THE SOVIET UNION AND
NAZI GERMANY.
>> WE ALSO REMEMBER WORLD
WAR II, AND AS SOON AS I HEARD
ABOUT KIEV, WE GUARDED THE
STATUE DOWNTOWN.
>> Reporter:.
>> Reporter: IN CRIMEA,
REMAINED PART OF UKRAINE AFTER
THE SOVIET UNION COLLAPSED IN
1991.
THE PENINSULA STILL HOSTS
RUSSIA'S BLACK SEA FLEET AND
VOTERS AND A MAJORITY OF
UKRAINIAN CITIZENS HERE WANT TO
BE RUSSIAN CITIZENS AGAIN.
>> WE HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR THIS
A LONG TIME.
WE FOLLOWED THE PRESS FORYEAR S.
>> Reporter: MANY PARTS OF
CRIMEA ARE IMPOVERISHED WITH
HIGH UNEMPLOYMENT AND LOW LEVELS
OF GOVERNMENT SERVICES AND
BENE
HERE.
>> Reporter: 29-YEAR-OLD
ALEXANDER DROMASHKO HAS ONLY
FOUND WORK AS A COURIER.
HE WANTS TO JOIN RUSSIA FOR
ECONOMIC REASONS.
>> SALARY PENSIONS ARE BIGGER IN
RUSSIA WHILE PRICES ARE LOWER.
THAT'S WHY I THINK THE MAJORITY
WILL VOTE TO JOIN RUSSIA TO GET
ANY KIND OF SAFETY NET, ANY KIND
OF STABILITY.
(SHOUTING)
>> Reporter: BUT OTHERS LOATHE
THE IDEA.
UKRAINIAN RALLIED IN THE CAPITAL
TODAY AGAINST THE REFERENDUM TO
JOIN RUSSIA.
THE 44-YEAR-OLD COMPUTER
TECHNICIAN FLS DEEEEPLY
UKRAINIAN AND LOOKS TO THE WEST,
NOT MOSCOW, FOR HIS FUTURE.
THE RUSSIAN MODEL, HE SAYS,
REPRESENTS THE PAST.
>> YOU WILL DO WHAT THE PARTY
HAS ORDERED AND RECEIVE
COMPENSATION.
THIS PASSIVE STYLE THRIVED FOR
THOUSANDS OF YEARS IN A
SOCIALIST STATE.
MODERN YOUTH WANTS CHOICE, THE
FREEDOM TO OPEN UP AND DEVELOP
THEMSELVES.
>> Reporter: AND YOU CONSIDER
YOURSELF PART OF THAT
GENERATION?
>> OF COURSE, YES.
>> Reporter: HE WILL STAY HOME
SUNDAY IN PROTEST OF A VOTE HE
CALLS A FARCE.
HE SAYS THE BALLOT DOESN'T EVEN
ALLOW NO AS AN OPTION AND DOUBTS
THE VOTES WILL EVEN BE COUNTED.
WHAT'S MORE, HE BELIEVES RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN HAS
DESIGNS ON MORE THAN CRIMEA.
>> I DON'T BELIEVE HE WIL
I THINK THIS IS JUST THE
BEGINNING OF HIS PLAN TO UNITE
ALL SLAVIC PEOPLE, BRINGING BACK
POWER TO THE SOVIET COUNTRIES.
HE WON'T STOP WITH UKRAINE.
>> Reporter: ALSO OPPOSED TO
THE REFERENDUM ARE RESIDENTS OF
THIS SMALL VILLAGE ON THE
OUTSKIRTS OF THE CAPITAL, HOME
TO MUSLIM TARTARS, WHOSE
ANCESTORS WERE DEPORTED BY
SOWFED LEADER STALIN IN 1944.
LIKE VIRTUALLY EVERY TARTAR
HERE, THIS 86-YEAR-OLD LIVES IN
FEAR OF FALLING UNDER RUSSIAN
RULE AGAIN.
HE REMEMBERS 20 DAYS OF FORCED
TRAVEL IN A BOX CAR WITH HIS
FAMILY, TAKEN TO A COLLECTIVE
FARM IN US UZBEKISTAN CALLED STN
WHERE THREE OF HIS SIBLINGS
DIED.
>> I AM AFRAID.
I'M SO UPSET IN WATCHING ALL OF
THIS AND CRYING.
I HAVE THIS FEAR FROM MY
CHILDHOOD AND RIGHT NOW I'M
AFRAID, TOO.
>> Reporter: A MORE IMMEDIATE
FEAR DROVE HIS YOUNGER TARTAR
NEIGHBORS AS IN MANY SUCH
COMMUNITIES TO MUSTER IN THE
COLD LATE LAST NIGHT AND GUARD
AGAINST ANY ATTEMPT TO ATTACK OR
INTIMIDATE THEIR VILLAGE AT THIS
CHARGED POLITICAL MOMENT.
MEANWHILE, IN THE CAPITAL TODAY,
SOME UKRAINIANS AND TARTARS HAVE
A LAST-DITCH ANTI-REFERENDUM
RALLY, A COMPANY OF RUSSIAN
STALWARTS DROVE BY AS IF THEY
WEREN'T THERE.
HARI SREENIVASAN SPOKE TO
MARGARET A SHORT TIME AGO.
>> Sreenivasan: HOER IS THE
VOTE EXPECTED TO GO.
>> Reporter: IT'S HARD THAT
THIS WON'T BE INTERPRETED AS
MOVING CRIMEA CLOSER TO RUSSIA.
FIRST OF ALL, YOU HAVE MAJOR
BLOCKS OF PEOPLE OPPOSED TO IT
LIKE THE WHOLE LEADERSHIP OF THE
TARTAR COMMUNITY, SAY THEY'RE
GOING TO BOYCOTT IT, SO IT'S NOT
THE LEGITIMACY.
SECONDLY THE WORDING OF THE
BALLOT BY I TRIED TO EXPLAIN IN
THE SENATE PIECE WHICH
ESSENTIALLY SAYS THEY WANT TO
JOIN RUSSIA RIGHT AWAY OR GO
BACK TO THE '92 CONSTITUTION
WHICH DECLARESNTIALLY INDEPENDE.
THIRD, I'VE HEARD FROM A LOT OF
YOUNG PEOPLE WHO ARE PRO
UKRAINIAN, A GREAT SENSE OF
FUTILITY.
A COUPLE WE MET ON THE TRAIN
SAID WE'RE JUST GOING TO MOVE TO
WESTERN UKRAINE.
THE WOMAN SAID, YOU KNOW, WE
DON'T FEEL THE DECISION WILL BE
MADE BY US, AND THE MAN SAID
WHATEVER RUST WANTS, RUSSIA JUST
TAKES.
THE DECISION HAS BEEN MADE.
IN TERMS OF MOTIVATION, I WOULD
SAY THE ENERGY IS ON THE SIDE
OFF THE PRO-RUSSIAN SUPPORTERS.
>> ARE THERE SIGNS OF A
CAMPAIGN?
WHAT DOES IT LOOK LIKE ON THE
STREETS?
>> WELL, HARI, NOT LIKE AN
AMERAN CICAMPAIGN.
YOU DON'T SEE RUSSIAN SOLDIERS
IN UNIFORM HERE.
THEY HAVE THIS MILITARY UNIT AND
LOCAL SELF-DEFENSE FORCES AND
THE RUSSIAN TROOPS ARE OUT
ENCIRCLING UKRAINIAN BASES BUT,
STILL, IT IS NOT A FREE
ATMOSPHERE.
SECONDLY THERE'S NO REAL DEBATE.
FOR INSTANCE, YOU HAVEN'T HAD
TELEVISED DEBATES.
MOST TO HAVE THE TV IS BLATANTLY
PRO-RUSSIAN.
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF UKRAINIAN
CHANNELS.
THIRD, THERE IS THIS
INTIMIDATION GOING ON, SOME
TARTARS IN A NEARBY CITY REPORT
HAVING Xs PUT ON THEIR DOORS
BY THUGS, THAT'S EXACTLY HOW THE
STALIN FORCES MARKED THE DOORS
OF TARTARS WHO WERE GOING TO GET
DEPORTED.
AND YOU'VE HAD PROMINENT
ACTIVIST LEADERS ON THE
PRO-UKRAINIAN SIDE, NON-TARTAR,
WHO HAVE GONE MISSING AND NO ONE
KNOWS WHERE THEY ARE.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT DOES THIS
MEAN FOR ORDINARY CMEANRIS
CAUGHT IN THE MIDDLE OF THIS?
>> Reporter: THE ORDINARY
CRIMEANS SAY IT'S DISHEARTENING.
ONE WOMAN SAID ALL MY FRIENDS
HAVE BEEN SO OPTIMISTIC ABOUT
THE FUTURE BUT THEY'RE NOT AND
THEIR LIVES HAVE BEEN PUT ON
HOLD.
SHELVES UKRAINIAN.
IT'S BEEN AN INDEPENDENT COUNTRY
FOR 23 YEARS.
SHE SAID MY BOYFRIEND ARE GOING
TO GET MARRIED AND WE DON'T KNOW
WHAT COUNTRY WE'LL BELONG TO.
SO I WOULD SAY THERE IS DISUNITY
OR DISCORD OR DISTRUST AMONG THE
GROUPS.
DIMITRI, THE 44-YEAR-OLD IN OUR
PIECE, SAID WE NEVER USED TO
ARGUE ABOUT POLITICS AND NOW WE
DO.
THE TARTARS ARE VERY NERVOUS AND
AS ONE WOMAN SAID, WE DON'T KNOW
WHAT PUTIN IS PUTTING IN THEIR
HEADS.
THERE'S A LOT OF UNEASE EVEN BY
PRO-RUSSIAN PEOPLE AS TO WHAT
THE FUTURE HOLDS.
>> Sreenivasan: CERTAIN
NATIONS HAVE BEEN THREATENING
SANCTIONS.
HOW DO THE CRIMEANS PERCEIVE
THESE EFFORTS?
>> HARI, I HAVE TO SAY THEY FALL
WOEFULLY SHORT.
CRIMEANS WHO ARE PRO-UKRAINE
FEAR THE TRADE.
WHAT THEY ARE TALKING ABOUT IS
IN 1994 IS WHEN UKRAINE AGREED
TO GIVE UP ITS NUCLEAR WEAPONS
WHICH IT HAD AS PART OF THE
SOVIET UNION, THERE WAS THE
BUDAPEST AGREEMENT SIGNED WHERE
THE U.S. AND RUSSIA AGREED WITH
UKRAINE TO ACT TO PROTECT
UKRAINE'S SOVEREIGNTY AND
SECURITY.
SO WHEN I WENT TO THE AMERICAN
EMBASSY THE OTHER DAY, THERE WAS
A COMMO DEMONSTRATION OUT FRONTN
WITH A BULLHORN SAYING YOU
PROMISED TO PROTECT US AND NOW
IT'S TIME FOR YOU TO DELIVER.
NOW, AMERICAN AND OTHER EUROPEAN
DIPLOMATS SAY A BUDAPES BOOED PA
BUDAPEST MEMORANDUM IS NOT
BINDING.
THAT ANSWER DOES NOT SIT WELL
WITH THE PRO-UKRAINIAN VOTERS WE
TALKED TO AND ONE TARTAR SAID TO
ME TODAY, WELL, AMERICA THEY SAY
IT'S NOT BINDING, BUT I HOPE
THEY KNOW IF PUTIN HASN'T
STOPPED WITH CRIMEA, HE'S GOING
TO KEEP GOING AND BE MOVING
THEIR WAY AND TOWARD OTHER
COUNTRIES.
>> Sreenivasan: MARGARET
WARNER, THANKS FOR JOINING US.
>> LOOK FORWARD TO TALKING TO
YOU THIS WEEKEND, HARI.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
GENTLEMEN, WELL, MARGARET
SOUNDED FAIRLY OMINOUS.
DAVID, WHAT ARE WE HEADED FOR?
>> I THINK THAT OMINOUSNESS IS
FULLY MERITED.
THE RUSSIANS ARE AMASSING TROOPS
ON THE BORDER, WHIPPED UP
FERVOR, TALKING ABOUT THE
RUSSIANS KILLED AND HARASSED
WITHIN UKRAINE.
IF PUTIN DECIDES TO ESCALATE,
WHAT ELSE IS THERE?
I WOULDN'T WANT TO BET ON IT BUT
I THINK THERE'S A POSSIBILITY OF
SOMETHING CATACLYSMIC HAPPENING
IN THE NEXT COUPLE OF WEEKS OR
WHATEVER.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO REMEMBER, FOR
PUTIN, IF YOU'RE AN AUTOCRAT IN
THE WORLD, WHAT'S THE ESSENTIAL
CONFLICT?
BETWEEN YOU AND THE SQUARE, AND
IT'S IMPORTANT TO SHOW YOU CAN
BEAT THE SQUARE AND THE SQUARE
IS NOT THE FUTURE, BY THAT I
MEAN THE POPULAR UPRISING.
TWO WAYS PUTIN CAN DO THAT.
FIRST, TAKE OVER PART OF
UKRAINE.
THE SECOND IS TO TRASH THE
COUNTRY AND SOW CHAOS THROUGHOUT
UKRAINE SO THE COUNTRY BEGINS TO
FALL APART, AND THAT IS
SOMETHING I KNOW ADMINISTRATION
OFFICIALS ARE ALSO THINKING.
>> Woodruff: YOU SEE SOMETHING
CATACLYSMIC COMING?
>> I HOPEOT, N JUDY.
I THINK ONE OF THE MISTAKES WE
MADE IN THE ANALYSIS OF THIS IS
WE ASSUME IT'S SORT OF A COLD
WAR HANGOVER, THAT THE RUSSIANSD
12 FEET TALL.
I THINK THIS IS VERY AD HOC.
I DON'T THINK PUTIN EXPECTED HIS
PUP ET TO FALL -- PUPPET TO FALL
AS COMPLETELY AND QUICKLY AS HE
DID IN A POPULAR UPRISING IN
UKRAINE, AND I THINK HE'S BEEN
PLAYING ITER AR IT VERY MUCH BY.
I THINK SANCTIONS ARE ABSOLUTELY
IMPERATIVE, AND SANCTIONS THAT
STICK AND SANCTIONS THAT STICK
MOST OF ALL UPON PUTIN AND HIS
OUTLIERS -- THOSE ARE THE
KLEPTOCAPITALLISTS, CRONY
CAPITALISTS OR WHATEVER YOU WANT
TO CALL THEM.
THE PRIVATE SCHOOLS, BOARDING
SCHOOLS OF ENGLAND AND SOME TO
HAVE THE UNITED STATES ARE BEING
SUSTAINED BY THE FULL TUITIONS
PAID BY THESE RUSSIAN OLIGARCHS
AND I THINK PERHAPS TIME HAS
COME FOR THAT TO END.
THEIR FLIRTATION WITH DOWNTON
ABBY, THEIR FIXATION WITH IT,
AND THEIR OWN GUILDED LIVING IN
THE WEST HAS TO COME TO AN END
AND I THINK THIS IS PLAYING INTO
THAT, AS WELL AS THE UNITED
STATES, AND SHE HAS SHOWN BOTH
MEASURE AND RESOLVE.
>> Woodruff: BUT IS THAT
LIKELY TO CHANGE PUTIN'S COURSE?
>> ONE AREA I DISAGREE WITH MARK
ON, MY UNDERSTANDING IS HE AT
LEAST HAS THOUGHT THROUGH SOME
THINGS AND HE'S THOUGHT THROUGH
THE ECONOMIC PAIN.
I THINK THE RUSSIAN MARKET WAS
DOWN 17% LAST TIME I CHECKED,
AND I THINK HE'S THOUGHT THROUGH
AND CANTIONS AND THOUGHT WE'VE
LIVE THROUGH THIS.
HE'S STEELED THE COUNTRY THROUGH
THE CAMPAIGN AND IS MAKING HAY
OUT OF ALL OF THIS.
NONETHELESS, I AGREE WITH MARK
ABOUT WHAT'S COMING.
I THINK THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
AS DONE A GREAT JOB, A STEADY
RATCHETING UP OF THE COSTS BOTH
TO ECONOMICALLY AND SOME OF THE
OLIGARCHS.
I THINK THEY HAVE BEEN A LITTLE
TIMID ON WHO THE SANCTIONS ARE
GOING TO, SOME LEGAL
RESTRICTIONS THEY HAVE TO DEAL
WITH, BUT ARE APPLYING
SANCTIONS.
THE VISA, THE SEIZING OF THE
ASSETS, THEY'RE RAMPING UP
STEADILY AND SLOWLY AND AT THE
SAME TIME BEGINNING TO GATHER A
AN INTERNATIONAL COALITION TO
SUPPORT UKRAINE THROUGH THE
I.N.S. AND ELSEWHERE.
I THINK THEY'RE BEING VERY
AGGRESSIVE AND CLEAR AND
RESPONDING IN A WAY WHICH IS
EARNING BIPARTISAN SUPPORT.
>> Woodruff: BUT IF RUSSIA
GOES AHEAD AND TAKES CRIMEA,
WHERE'S THE ADMINISTRATION THEN?
WHERE'S THE WEST?
>> I THINK THAT'S WHEN THE
SANCTIONS REALLY HAVE TO BITE.
I DO THINK THE E.U. HAS BEEN
JUST MOLASSES ON THIS.
THEY HAVE BEEN VERY SLOW IN
ENGAGING AND HELPING UKRAINE AND
SUPPORTING THEM.
I THINK, BEYOND THAT, JUDY, WHAT
WE HAVE IN THIS COUNTRY IS A
POLITICAL REALITY THAT, WHILE
THERE'S BEEN LOUD REPUBLICAN
CRITICISM FROM JOHN McCAIN AND
LINDSEY GRAHAM, AT THE MOST
IMPORTANT CONSERVATIVE GATHERING
OF THE YEAR, THE NATIONAL
POLITICAL ACTION -- CONSERVATIVE
POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE, THE
WINNER GOING AWAY FOR PRESIDENT
IN 2016 WITH A MAN WHO IS
AGAINST CHEST THUMPING, RAND
PAUL OF KENTUCKY, AND FINISHING
WAY BACK IN THE BACK OF THE
PACK, MAR MARK ARUBIO.
>> I WOULD SAY GENERALLY THE
COUNTRY DOES NOT WANT TO BE
ACTIVE ABROAD AND THAT'S NOT
JUST REPUBLICAN, THAT'S
NATIONALLY.
FIRST TIME IN MEASURED HISTORY
FROM THE PEW RESEARCH CENTER,
MORE AMERICANS THINK WE'RE DOING
TOO MUCH TO SOLVE THE WORLD'S
PROBLEMS AND THEY WANT TO TURN
AROUND.
IT'S NOT THEY'RE AGAINST GLOLBA
ECONOMICS, THEY DON'T BELIEVE IN
THE EFFICACY OF AMERICAN
DIPLOMATIC POWER, THEY JUST
DON'T WANT US INVOLVED.
AND A POLLING OF UKRAINE
SPECIFICALLY, THEY SAY DON'T GET
INVOLVED.
S>> Woodruff: MEANTIME, HERE
AND IN THE U.S., THERE IS A
SURPRISING SPLIT BETWEEN ONE OF
THE SENATORS WHO WAS MOST
SUPPORTIVE OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY, SENATOR DIANNE
FEINSTEIN, CAME OUT WITH A
BLISTERING CRITICISM OF THE
C.I.A., SAYING IT WAS SPYING ON
THE COMPUTERS USED BY THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE.
WHAT DOES THIS SAY ABOUT THE
SUPPORT -- FRANKLY, THE ENTIRE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY HAS HAD
FROM THE POLITICAL LEADERSHIP?
>> 9/11, THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY HAD A BLANK CHECK IN
THIS COUNTRY AND IT WAS CASHED
OVER AND OVER AGAIN.
THE N.S.A., NOW THE C.I.A.
DISCLOSURERS OR ALLEGATIONS.
THE PRESUMPTION WAS ANYTHING
THAT'S NECESSARY TO BE DONE TO
PRESERVE NATIONAL SECURITY TO
AVOID ANOTHER 9/11, OKAY, WE
KIND OF LOOK THE OTHER WAY AND
MAYBE SUSPEND CIVIL LIBERTIES.
I THINK THAT HAS RUN ITS COURSE.
I THINK THERE IS A GROWING
CONCERN ABOUT PRIVACY IN THIS
COUNTRY, AND WHEN DIE NAN DIANNE
FEINSTEIN, WHO HAS BEEN A
STAUNCH SUPPORTER, DEFENDER OF
THE N.S.A., C.I.A., COMES TO THE
FLOOR WITH A SPEECH ABOUT WHOSE
WIRES ARE BEING TAPPED AND IT'S
HER COMMITTEE AND SHE'S
OUTRATCHED AND THE N.S.A. IS
BARRED FROM DOMESTIC
INTELLIGENCE GATHERING, SO THIS
IS A REAL RUN COMIEWR BETWEEN
SUPPORTERS OF THE SECRECY AND
THE INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES AND
ONE OF ITS STRONGEST DEMOCRATS.
>> Woodruff: WE SHOULD SAY THE
C.I.A. IS DENYING WHAT SENATOR
FEINSTEIN SAID.
FLOOR IN THE
SENATE AND PEOPLE WERE AMAZED
THAT YOU HAD THIS KIND OF PUBLIC
CONFRONTATION AND ANGER
ESPECIALLY FROM HER, SO A
DRAMATIC ESCALATION.
THE SUBSTANCE GETS MURKY AND I
WAS STRUCK BY SOMETHING MARCO
RUBIO SAID AND SAID WHAT DIANNE
FEINSTEIN IS SAYING IS
OVERSIMPLIFICATION AND SAID NONE
OF US HAVE CLEAN HANDS.
THAT SEEMS TRUE TO ME.
NONETHELESS, WE HAVE SORT OF A
SHOOTING WAR, NOT LITERALLY, BUT
A RHETORICAL SHOOTING WAR
BETWEEN THE AGENCY AND THE
COMMITTEE AND THAT'S JUST WEIRD.
THAT IS JUST -- IT REMINDS ME OF
THE RHETORICAL WAY THE STATE
DEPARTMENT HAD WITH THE AGENCY
AFTER BENGHAZI.
THERE'S A LOT OF THINGS
FRACTURING.
PEOPLE WHO SHOULD BE WORKING
TOGETHER ARE IN COLD WAR
FOOTING.
DOESN'T BODE WELL FOR THE FUTURE
OF COOPERATION BUT ESPECIALLY
RAISES THE THE POSSIBILITY THAT
WE'RE ONE BIG SCANDAL AWAY FROM
HEARINGS, A BIG REAHUMIDITY OF
THE WHOLE NATIONAL SECURITY
STRUCTURE.
>> Woodruff: TWO OTHER THINGS
I WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT BUT ONE
IS, MARK, THE PRESIDENT, JUST IN
THE LAST 24 HOURS ANNOUNCED HE
WANTS A REVIEW OF DEPORTATION
POLICY IN THIS COUNTRY.
WE KNOW THE PRESIDENT IS HAVING
A HARD TIME GETTING A
COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM
THROUGH THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN
ADAMANT ABOUT SAYING THERE'S
NOTHING HE CAN DO, HE HAS TO
DEPORT AMERICANS HERE ILLEGALLY
HAVE TO BE DEPORT OR HAVE BEEN
DEPORTED BUT NOW HE'S SAYING
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE ANOTHER
LOOK.
WHAT'S HAPPENED?
>> FIRST OF ALL, ANY CHANCES OF
LEGISLATION ON IMMIGRATION ARE
OFFICIALLY OVER.
I THINK THAT CAN BE SIGNALED BY
THIS MOVE ON THE PRESIDENT'S
PART.
SECONDLY, THE PRESIDENT WAS
TAKING CRITICISM FROM HIS OWN
SUPPORTERS IN THE LATINO
COMMUNITY.
THEY DEPORTED MORE UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS THAN ANY
ADMINISTRATION IN THE NATION'S
HISTORY, AND ADD TO THAT, JUDY,
THE REALITY OF THE 2014
POLITICAL CAMPAIGN.
I MEAN, THE DEMOCRATS ARE GOING
TO NEED EVERY VOTE THEY HAVE,
AND THE PRESIDENT GOT NO PAYOFF,
NO CREDIT ON THE REPUBLICAN SIDE
FROM CRITICS OF IMMIGRATION BY
THE FACT THAT HE HAD BEEN THE
DEPORTER IN CHIEF, SO I THINK
THE DECISION IS HAS BEEN MADE.
>> I DON'T KNOW HOW INFORMED YOU
ARE ON THE MERITS OF REVIEWING
OR REFORMING THE DEPORTATIONS
POLICIES, BUT IT'S SO INNATELY
POLITICAL.
THE DEMOCRATS JUST LOST THIS BIG
ELECTION IN FLORIDA.
THEY'RE IN A BAD POLITICAL SPOT.
THEY NEED HISPANIC TURNOUT.
HE'S GETTING -- YOU KNOW, JUST
THE WEAK, HE'S GETTING RAMPED UP
CRITICISM FROM THE CAUCUS.
IT'S SO POLITICAL, YOU HATE TO
SEE POLICY DONE IN THIS WAY.
WHETHER GOOD OR I DON'T KNOW.
>> Woodruff: SPEAKING OF
CONGRESSIONAL LOSS, A SPECIAL
ELECTION IN FLORIDA, MARK,
MESSAGE FOR THE DEMOCRATS?
THEY BY ALL ACCOUNTS EXPECTED TO
WIN.
THEY LOST.
HEALTHCARE WAS A BIG ISSUE.
IN A MINUTE, WHAT
FOR 2014 FOR THE DEMOCRATS?
>> JUDY, HOUSE ELECTIONS ARE
FASCINATING BECAUSE THE ONLY WAY
YOU CAN GET TO THE HOUSE IS GET
I ELECTRICKED, CAN'T GET
APPOINTED.
THIS WAS AN EXAMPLE, THE
DEMOCRATS HAD THE CANDIDATE THEY
WANTED IN ALEX SINK.
SHE RAN STATEWIDE, HAD MONEY,
PRO-CHOICE, PRO-SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE, RUNNING AGAINST A
CANDIDATE WHO WAS ANTI-ABORTION
RIGHTS, ANTI-SAME-SEX MARRIAGE,
A WASHINGTON LOBBYIST, AND IN A
DISTRICT THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA
CARRIED TWICE AND THE DEMOCRATS
LOST.
I MEAN, IT IS --
>> Woodruff: HEALTHCARE
REFORM.
>> HEALTHCARE REFORM WAS THE
CLUB THAT THE REPUBLICANS HIT
HER OVER THE HEAD WITH.
I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY
QUESTION THAT THIS IS A BLOW TO
THE DEMOCRATS AND THEIR HOPES
AND PROSPECTS OF WINNING BACK
THE HOUSE IN 2014.
A LOT MORE BLEAK THAN BEFORE
LAST TUESDAY.
>> I WOULD EVEN SAY KEEPING THE
SENATE LOOKS GLIMMER NOW.
HEALTHCARE REFORM, IT'S A SYMBOL
FOR BIG GOVERNMENT, THE
REPUBLICAN GROUND GAME SEEMS TO
BE VASTLY IMPROVED MORE THAN TWO
YEARS AGO AND OBAMA'S UNPOPULAR.
IT HAS THE FEEL OF SOMETHING
THAT'S REAL.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE BOTH SO
POPULAR WITH US.
WE HAVE TO SAY GOODBYE, DAVID
BROOKS MARK SHIELDS.
>> Woodruff: EDWARD SNOWDEN
HELPED PUSH THE N.S.A. FROM THE
SHADOWS INTO THE SPOTLIGHT.
WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK WITH AN
INSIDE LOOK AT HIS REVELATIONS
AND THE NEWSPAPER THAT FIRST
PUBLISHED HIS STORY.
BUT FIRST THIS IS PLEDGE WEEK ON
PBS.ASTING.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
HE'S A WANTED MAN IN THE U.S.
BUT THIS WEEK NATIONAL SECURITY
AGENCY LEAKER EDWARD SNOWDEN
SPOKE, VIA VIDEO FROM RUSSIA, TO
THE ANNUAL GATHERING CALLED
SOUTH BY SOUTHWEST.
HE ARGUED TO THE CROWD GATHERED
IN AUSTIN, TEXAS, THE TECH
INDUSTRY NEEDS TO DO MORE TO
PROTECT THE PRIVACY OF AMERICANS
IN THE DIGITAL AGE.
A NEW BOOK EXAMINES WHAT SNOWDEN
REVEALED AND PULLS TOGETHER THE
THREADS OF ONE OF THE BIGGEST
SECURITY BREACHES IN AMERICAN
HISTORY.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR
CONVERSATION.
BROWN IT BEGAN WITH AN EMAIL, I
AM A SENIOR MEMBER TO HAVE THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY, THE
BEGINNING OF REVELATIONS LEAKED
BY EDWARD SNOWDEN, THE VAST
SURVEILLANCE OF DATA BY THE
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY AND THE
BEGINNING OF A NEW BOOK ENTITLED
"THE SNOWDEN FILES THE INSIDE
STORY OF THE WORLD'S MOST WANTED
MAN."
LUKE HARDING BROKE THE STORY.
I AM A SENIOR MEMBER OF THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE, SNOWDEN
WROTE TO GLEN GREENWALD.
WHAT'S THE IMPRESSION YOU DREW
OF THE JUNG SNOWDEN?
>> HE WAS SOMEONE WHO HAD
INCREDIBLE ACCESS TO TOP SECRET
INFORMATION, AND HE WAS UNHAPPY
ABOUT WHAT HE SAW AND THOUGHT HE
WOULD LIFT THE LID ON
UNCONSTITUTIONAL MASS
SURVEILLANCE.
>> Brown: YOU FIND INSIGHT
INTO THE MIND OF ESPECIALLY THE
YOUNGER SNOWDEN THROUGH
ANONYMOUS POSTINGS ON A TECH
WEB SITE AND USED THIS NAME, THE
TRUE HUHA.
>> YES, HE MADE A POSTING, A
POSTINGS GIVE US SOME INSIGHT
INTO HOW HE WAS AS A YOUNG MAN.
SOME NOT OF THE LEFT OR RIGHT,
VERY PATRIOTIC, PRETTY OBNOXIOUS
IN PLACES, DEEPLY INTO
COMPUTERS.
>> Brown: HIS STRONGEST
LEANING SEEMS TO BE LIBERTARIAN,
HE SUPPORTED RON PAUL.
>> YES, THE GUIDING PRINCIPLE
WAS THE AMERICAN CONSTITUTION HE
EVEN WANTED TO JOIN THE
MILITARY.
>> Brown: AT ONE POINT,
LEAKERS OF INFORMATION.
>> IN 2009 WHEN HE'S WORKINGS AS
A JUNIOR ANALYST IN SWITZERLAND,
HE BLASTED "THE NEW YORK TIMES,"
OPERATIONS IN IRAN AND DENOUNCES
WIKILEAKS.
BUT HE CHANGES LIKE MOST YOUNG
PEOPLE.
HE GOES ON A JOURNEY.
THE MORE HE SAW THE MORE
DISILLUSIONED HE GAME.
>> Brown: THAT'S PART OF THE
STORY IN THE BOOK.
ISN'T THERE A FEW MOMENTS WHERE
HE CHANGES OVER TIME?
>> IT WAS OVER A PERIOD OF
YEARS.
TWO THINGS UPSET HIM.
FIRST, HE SAW MORE STUFF.
HE WAS A SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR
SO HE COULD ROAM AROUND SECRET
PLACES OF THE N.S.A.
HE SAW DOCUMENTS WHICH TROUBLED
HIM.
SECONDLY, HE BECAME
DISILLUSIONED WITH A BARACK
OBAMA WHO WOULD ROLL BACK FROM
THESE PROGRAMS AND WHEN HE
DIDN'T, HE DECIDED TO ACT AND
'DO THIS EXTRAORDINARY LEAK.
>> Brown: WHAT'S YOUR
IMPRESSION OF SNOWDEN, HIS OWN
LEVEL OF CERTAINTY ABOUT WHAT HE
WAS DOING, SEEING AND WHAT HE
SHOULD DO ABOUT IT?
>> HE HAS THIS ENORMOUS SENSE OF
INNER CALM.
MY COLLEAGUES WHO MET HIM IN
HONG KONG SAID HE REACHED THIS
PLACE OF INNER TRANQUILITY WHERE
HE DECIDED HE WOULD DO THE LEAK
EVEN THOUGH HE KNEW FULL WELL IT
WOULD HAVE ENORMOUS CONSEQUENCES
AND HIS LIFE WOULD NEVER BE THE
SAME BUT HE FELT MORALLY
COMPELLED TO ACT.
OF COURSE, IT WAS A BIG PRICE.
HE'S NOW AN EXILE WITH NO
PROSPECT OF COMING BACK TO THE
U.S.
>> Brown: THE FIRST MEETING
THAT YOU DESCRIBE HERE, YOU
KNOW, A LOT OF THIS IS IN THE
I.T. WORLD, IT'S THE TECH WORLD,
BUT THAT FIRST MEETING HAS A LOT
OF CLOAK AND DAGGER AND
OLD-FASHIONED SPY WORLD.
>> IT'S A CROSS OF A MAGICAL
MYSTERY TOUR.
HE SENDS THESE INSTRUCTIONS
SAYING MEET ME AT THE HOTEL IN
HONG KONG NEXT TO THE PLASTIC
ALLIGATOR AND I WILL BE THE GUY
CARRYING A SCRAMBLED RUBRICS
CUBE.
AND THEN GLEN, THE FILMMAKER WHO
MET HIM, WERE EXPECTED TO SEE A
GRISLED CIA VETERAN IN A BLAZER
AND THEY GET THIS YOUNG
STUDENT-LIKE GEEK AND THEIR
FIRST REACTION IS IT'S
IMPOSSIBLE, IT CAN'T BE HIM.
OVER A PERIOD OF SEVERAL DAYS,
THEY DEBRIEF HIM AND GET A STORY
AND HE TOOK THEM TO THE
DOCUMENTS AND THEY DISCOVERED HE
IS INDEED REAL.
>> Brown: SO MUCH HAS COME OUT
AND WE ON THIS PROGRAM HAVE ALL
LOOKED AT THIS, SO MUCH ABOUT
THE VARIOUS SURVEILLANCE
PROGRAMS.
WHERE ARE WE IN THIS STORY?
IS THERE MORE TO COME?
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
>> THERE IS MORE TO COME,
FANTASTIC REVELATIONS IN THE
LAST NINE MONTHS.
WE KNOW SO MUCH THAN A YEAR AGO.
WE KNOW iPhoneS ARE GREAT
SPYING DEVICES, THE N.S.A. CAN
HACK YOUR WEBCAM.
ALL ABOUT THE TELEPHONE RECORDS
COLLECTED.
THERE'S A HUGE DEBATE GOING ON
IN THE U.S. AND BRAZIL WHERE
EVERYONE IS SAYING, YOU KNOW,
WHAT SHOULD THE BOUNDARIES BE OF
SURVEILLANCE IN THIS KIND OF
ELECTRONIC AGE.
>> Brown: WE'LL CONTINUE THIS
CONVERSATION ONLINE AND I'LL
INVITE LATER ON.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
NEW EVIDENCE IN THE MISSING
MALAYSIAN JETLINER SUGGESTS THE
PLANE FLEW WEST, FOR HOURS,
AFTER IT'S LAST CONTACT.
AND RUSSIA SENT MORE TROOPS AND
ARMOR INTO CRIMEA, WHERE
RESIDENTS VOTE THIS WEEKEND ON
SECEDING FROM UKRAINE.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, IT'S "PI DAY," THE HOLIDAY
WHERE MATH GEEKS ACROSS THE
GLOBE PAUSE TO CELEBRATE THE
FIRST THREE DIGITS OF THE
IRRATIONAL NUMBER PI, OR 3.14.
IT'S ALSO AN EXCUSE TO ENJOY
YOUR FAVORITE EDIBLE PIE.
SO HAVE A SLICE AND TEST YOUR
MATH SKILLS WITH AN INTERACTIVE
QUIZ.
PLUS, PLAY A GAME TO FIND YOUR
BIRTHDAY DIGITS IN PI.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
LATER TONIGHT ON "WASHINGTON
WEEK," MORE ON THE STALLED
DIPLOMACY OVER UKRAINE, PLUS THE
PROBE INTO CHARGES THE CIA SPIED
ON THE U.S. SENATE.
AND THE NEWS DOESN'T STOP ON
FRIDAYS.
TUNE IN TO THE PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND FOR THE LATEST ON THE
MALAYSIAN AIRLINER AND THE KEY
VOTE IN CRIMEA.
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY, WITH A LOOK AT A
POETRY PROGRAM IN SEATTLE
DESIGNED FOR JUVENILE OFFENDERS.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, HAVE A GREAT
WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND
GOOD NIGHT.